docs: Smart Extension Recommendation (#2436)
block/goose: documentation/docs/guides/smart-extension-recommendation.md

---
title: Smart Extension Recommendation
sidebar_position: 21

> sidebar_label: Using Dynamic Extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Smart Extension Recommendation
description: Learn how Goose dynamically discovers and manages extensions
```

---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The Smart Extension Recommendation system in Goose automatically identifies and suggests relevant extensions based on your tasks and needs. This guide explains how to use this feature effectively and understand its capabilities and limitations.

When you request a task, Goose checks its enabled extensions and their tools to determine if it can fulfill the request. If not, it suggests or enables additional extensions as needed. You can also request specific extensions by name.

> ## Using Dynamic Extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

:::warning

> Any extensions enabled this way will be lost when you close Goose. To keep extensions enabled between sessions, follow the [Using Extensions](/docs/getting-started/using-extensions) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any extensions enabled dynamically are only enabled for the current session. To keep extensions enabled between sessions, follow the [Using Extensions](/docs/getting-started/using-extensions) guide.
```

Author: thats better wording youre right. lost is misleading. thank you!

:::

> ### Automatic Detection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Automatic Detection
```

I'll help you search for available extensions that might help us interact with PostgreSQL databases.

🔍 Search Available Extensions
└─ Output ▼

 I see there's a PostgreSQL extension available. Let me enable it so we can query your database.

🔧 Manage Extensions
└─ action           enable
   extension_name   postgresql

The extension 'postgresql' has been installed successfully

Great! Now I can help you query the database...
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI">

#### Goose Prompt
```plaintext
Find all orders with pending status from our production database
```

#### Goose Output

```sh
I apologize, but I notice that I don't currently have access to your database. Let me search if there are any database-related extensions available.
─── search_available_extensions | platform ──────────────────────────

I see that there is a "postgresql" extension available. Let me enable it so I can help you query your database.
─── enable_extension | platform ──────────────────────────
extension_name: postgresql

■  Goose would like to enable the following extension, do you approve?
// highlight-start
| ● Yes, for this session 
// highlight-end
| ○ No
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ### Direct Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Direct Request
```
